We were brought up
in a small town in Saskatchewan.
It was friendly.
I don’t think they moved to other places.
They stayed right there.
One time, our father said:
“Why do you have to go so far as India?
Why can’t you preach in Canada?”
Dad was very strict.
Very strict.
When we were out playing
and he came out and called us,
we had to come immediately.
They were strict.
Don’t question; just do what you’re told.
Yeah, do what you’re told.
Yeah.
That’s right.
Strict.
My father was the one that was interested,
but he never came into the truth.
He enjoyed having Witnesses
come to our home,
but he never ever thought
of himself as being
one of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Coming into the truth, I think,
changed our life,
and we had a different purpose.
So that was when we decided,
“Well, I guess we should pioneer now too.”
And we only pioneered two years,
and we were called to Gilead.
So then we graduated in 1953.
On your application for Gilead,
one question is:
Are you willing to go
any place in the world?
Brother Knorr always would say,
“A one-way ticket.”
So that was on your mind.
We were happy to go.
And if we didn’t get back, that was OK.
And then the 13 of us, for one month,
we all went together back to India
on a ship.
Well, we were a bit nervous
because we didn’t know
just what kind of people
we would be meeting
or what kind of atmosphere
we’d be experiencing.
That was why it was a shock
when we landed in Bombay
because all we could see
was people,
people everywhere and noise.
And then they gave us such hot food.
We were burning all the way down.
And then when we arrived there,
the missionary home had no furniture
and we had to sleep on the floor
for quite a few months
before the furniture was made.
We boiled our water;
we filtered our water.
When we went to the market,
we’d bring all our vegetables and fruit home
and we washed them with a solution.
And we were very careful in that respect.
It was all a shock to us in many things.
Yes.
We made up our mind, I guess,
that it’s not going to be
the same as Canada, we know.
We didn’t worry about the things
we had to put up with
because we had the joy in the ministry.
The Society wanted us
to get the Joy booklet out,
and we had to just stand on the street
with this carton of literature
and just keep calling out to the people,
and everybody would take it.
And they were so appreciative,
really appreciative.
Yeah, they were.
Yeah.
In those days,
we had to put in 150 hours.
And in South India, after 4:00 p.m.,
women were not out.
So we had to get all our time in
early in the morning
and work right through until four o’clock.
We sure did.
We were using the Malayalam language,
and the children repeated what we said.
They’d run ahead and tell people
what we were talking about.
And they’d all yell,
“Ma’damma, ma’damma.”
“White woman, white woman.”
Yeah, and we had many studies then.
We enjoyed the ministry,
and we enjoyed the hospitality.
Be with the brothers and go to their homes
and eat their food and do things
the way they do things.
So we had to make India our home.
We lived in India about 50 years.
And then the news came
that we had to leave.
So that was why the Governing Body said,
“Well, you go to the Canada branch then.”
Well, it was like a culture shock too
after being so many years in India.
Yes.
A lot of things we had
to sort of adjust to here now.
I’m working down in the laundry, folding.
Same.
Folding and folding until we fold in.
Well, we always tell the younger ones
to be in the full-time service
serving Jehovah.
This, we think,
is a wonderful life to choose.
It’s good for the young people
to learn when they’re young like that.
And, no doubt,
they’ll make progress in the truth too.
We’re glad we started pioneering
and moved about.
Yeah.
We lacked nothing, really.
We have nothing to complain about.